Joseph Keller used to jog around the
Stanford campus and and he was struck by
all the women jogging there as well why
did the opponent is swing from side to
side like that being a mathematician he
set out to understand why probably
Keller was curious about many things why
people dribble or how earthworms wriggle
till a few months ago I hadn't heard of
Joseph Keller I read about him in the
New York Times in the obituaries
The Times had half a page of editorial
dedicated to him which he can imagine
his premium space for a newspaper of the
earth feature I read the obituaries
almost every day my wife understandably
thinks I'm rather morbid to begin my day
with scrambled eggs and a let's see who
died today
but if you think about it the friends
page of the newspaper is usually bad
news and QS man's failures an instance
where bad news cues accomplishment is at
the end of the paper in the obituaries
in my day job I run a company that
focuses on future insights that
marketers can derive from past data a
kind of rearview mirror analysis and we
began to think what if we held a
rearview mirror to obituaries from the
New York Times were the lessons on how
you could get your obituary featured
it's even if you aren't around to enjoy
it would this go better with trampled
eggs
and so we looked at the data mm
editorial non-paid of it URIs over a 20
month period between 2015 and 2016 what
did these two thousand deaths rather
lives teach us at first we looked at
words this here is an arbitrary headline
this one is of the amazing Lee Kuan Yew
if you remove the beginning and the end
you're left with a beautifully worded
descriptor that tries to in just a few
words capture an achievement over a
lifetime just looking at these is
fascinating here are a few famous ones
people who died in the last two years
trying guess who they are but friends oh
yes Dada Hadid
so we took these descriptors and this
what's called natural language
processing where you feed these into a
program it throws out the superfluous
words the and the kind of words you can
mine easily in charades and leaves you
with the most significant words and we
did it not just for these four but for
all 2,000 descriptors and this is what
it looks like film theater music dance
and of course art a huge or 40% you have
to wonder why in so many societies we
insist that our kids pursue engineering
or medicine or business or law to be
construed as successful and while we're
talking profession let's look at age the
average age at which they achieved
things that number is 37 what that means
is you got to wait 37 years before your
first significant achievement that you
remembered for on an average 44 years
later when you die at the age of 81 on
an average
talk about having to be patient of
course it varies by profession if you're
a sports star you'll probably hit your
stride in your 20s and if your forties
like me you can join the fun world of
politics politicians do their first and
sometimes only commendable act in the
mid 40s if you're wondering what others
are here are some examples isn't it
fascinating the things people do and the
things they remembered for our curiosity
was an overdrive and and we desired to
analyze more than just a descriptor
so we ingested the entire first
paragraph of all 2000 or victories but
we did this separately for two groups of
people people that are famous and people
that are not famous fail of people of
Prince Aly Zara Hadid people who are not
famous are people at Joslin Cooper
Reverend Carey or Lana Kelly I'm willing
to bet you haven't heard of most of
their names amazing people fantastic
achievements but they are not famous so
what if we analyze these two groups
separately the famous and the non famous
what might that tell us take a look two
things leap out at me first John anyone
here named John should thank your
parents and remind your kids to cut out
your obituary whenever and second help
we uncovered many lessons from live well
lead and what those people immortalized
in print could teach us the exercise was
a fascinating testament to the
Kaleidoscope that is life and even more
fascinating was the fact that the
overwhelming majority of our victories
featured people's famous and non famous
who did seaming the extraordinary things
they made a positive dent in the fabric
of life they helped so ask yourselves as
you go back to your daily lives how am I
using my talents to help society because
the most powerful lesson here is
if more people lived your life trying to
be famous and depth the world would be a
much better place thank you
[Applause]